Containers used to be called Linux Jails.

They are essentially 3 linux features taped together. 
1. Jailed processes
2. Control groups
3. Namespaces

We will jail a process, keep it resources to itself, and adding it to a C group.

Why containers:
Earlier, you had to run your code directly on your own server. This means you would have
  to take care of the OS and the hardware itself, including who can access the servers, the
  temperature of the room, power thats served to the servers etc.

  This means you would have to buy servers, then pay someone to take care of them, or take
  care of them yourself.

The next step was virtual machines, we can now take our server, and split it into virtual 
  machines, to run multiple applications

Now, you don't need to keep buying new servers for new applications. However, you still need to:
  a. Security patch your own servers
  b. Manage your own OS

Containers take the concept of virtual machines, but they avoid the need to keep duplicating
  operating systems for each virtual machines. So they are lighter

chroot:
  A command that allows you to "change root" of a process. This makes it such that the process
    now thinks that it is root, and cannot access anything before it. (Jailed process)


docker ps = Tells you which containers are running.

docker run -it --name docker-host --rm --privileged ubuntu:jammy

run = to run the container

-it = to make it interactive and not run in the background

--name docker-host = to give it a recognizable name

--rm = throw away all the information about this container once we're done.

--privileged = to give it root privilege (not recommended, only for current situation)

ubuntu:jammy = the distribution and its version

ldd bin/bash:
  Tells you all the libraries that you need to bring with bash so that bash can actually run

This is useful when you need to find what all libraries you need to copy into your new
  container.

Not only do we copy ls, or cat, from bin/ls or bin/cat, we also
  need the libraries they depend on, so we use ldd to find the libraries,
  and place them in lib and lib64

Although using jailed processes prevents multiple users from accessing each 
  other file systems, a user can still see what all processes are running
  throughout the system by using ps aux, and kill them if required.

Namespaces:
By using namespaces, a jailed process cannot see what other processes are running

We create the namespace using the keyword unshare. unshare creates a new isolated namespace from its parent

So what have we done so far:
chroot => Now the process thinks it's the root process
unshare => Now the process does not have access to other processes

But what if a chrooted and unshared process is manipulated such that it uses 100 percent
  of the resources of the server? Other users can no longer use this any more. This could happen
  because of a memory leak in someone's program, or because of a bad actor

This is where cgroups come in. Invented in google, this basically assigns a limited amount of CPU, RAM
  and resources to a particular process.

cgroups are like a pseudo file system. You will read and write to config files that will manage your cgroups.
Every process belongs to exactly one cgroup.

By using cgroups, we can limit the RAM per container, the amount of CPU usage, and the number of 
processes that can be active at once (to prevent fork bombs)

In short, containers = chroot (to create a box), unshare (to avoid looking at other processes) and
  cgroups (to limit the amount of resources used)

Docker:

Image = A pre-made container that you can use. Think of this like a class from C++, you can create a lot of
  objects.

An image just describes the state of a container.

1. docker run will start a new shell
2. docker exec will run the command that you want within a container
  example: docker exec container_name ls => Shows you the output of what happens after you run
    ls within the container.
3. docker run --detach (-dit) => runs in the background
4. docker attach => attaches you to a running container

Tags:
docker run -it --name docker-host --rm --privileged ubuntu:jammy

:jammy is the tag. It is just a name placed over a number. jammy = 22.04 

In general, your development container must contain everything (debugging tools, full OS), so let it be heavy.
Prod container can contain only the essentials. This way, you minimize the amount of security vulnerabilities
for your application.

Pull:
Similar to git pull, allows you to pre-fetch a container so you can run it later.

Docker pause/unpause:
Allows you to pause and resume a container

Docker restart:
restarts a container

Building/Creating your own containers:
We use a Dockerfile to create an image. They are a special set of instructions that help you create
  your own container.

FROM node:20

CMD [ "node", "-e", "console.log(\"hello\")" ]

Above is a basic container. FROM and CMD are the instructions.
Each instruction creates a new layer, and each layer has a hash. Each layer (hash) is a valid container
  in and of itself.

One very useful thing about layers having hashes is because it helps with caching. If you have 70 layers,
  and only the last 2 changed, you don't have to rebuild the entire container, you just need to run the last
  2 layers.

There can only be 1 CMD instruction in a Dockerfile. If there are mutiple, it executes the last one.
CMD instruction will be executed after the container is built, not during the build process.

docker build . --tag my-node-app => . means current directory, --tag means provide the following argument
  as the name. This way, you do not have to remember the hash value.

docker build creates an image. docker run will create a container.

When running a container, by default, its ports are not exposed. So you need to expose them 
  yourself.

docker run -p [host_port]:[container_port] [image_name] => we use this command. -p means publish

Example:
docker run --init --publish 3000:3000 --rm --name na my-node-app:3

--name na mean name the container na
my-node-app:3 means use this image to create the container

USER node: This is a node container specific thing. Prevents a user from getting root access.

RUN useradd -ms /bin/bash lolcat => This allows you to create a user named lolcat.

COPY index.js /home/node/code/index.js
ADD index.js /home/node/code/index.js
Both the commands above have the same purpose, to place the files(s) within the container. 
  The ADD command however, has some extra functionality (adding remote URLS, unzipping files). 
  Use it only if you need that additional functionality.

WORKDIR /app => Creates the working directory
We can do WORKDIR /home/node/code/ so that way, when you write COPY index.js /home/node/code/index.js, you don't 
  need to write /home/node/code/index.js, but rather . (since we changed the default directory)

ADDING NPM DEPENDENCIES TO A NODE APP:
When you have an application that contains dependencies, you need to:
1. Copy all these new files, including package.json
2. Install these new dependencies

DOCKERIGNORE FILE:
We create a dockerignore (.dockerignore) file, which is similar to a .gitignore file.

Note: It is usually recommended to download your package.json dependencies early in the Dockerfile.
  This way, we can pull from the cache, which massively decreases our build time.

Note 2: Using alpine/slim distro's can help reduce the size of the container, thus improving build time.
  Don't over optimize this step, but try to use when possible.

MULTI-STAGE BUILDS:
Some packages are unnecessary for our production container (npm), and don't have to be installed on our prod.
  container.


DISTROLESS:
This is the most barebones you can get. There is no package manager here, so you'd need to install it yourself.
  